#summary Running list of changes to Books
#labels Phase-QA,Featured

== 1.5-r523 13-May-2008 ==
 * Massive increase in leaving and re-entering Books.  App appears to stay resident now.  Not sure if this is good in the long run, but it's a LOT faster.
 * Book view was displayed mostly off screen on initial load (Issue #138)
 * Status bar was displayed in wrong place after resume in portrait mode.
 * Book loading progress bar wasn't visible if current book was scrolled past the first page.

== 1.5-r518 11-May-2008 ==
 * Fixed remaining rotation issues for dialogs
 * Fixed rotate-lock setting not being restored on start (Issue #136)
 * Optimized shutdown routines to speed shutdown

== 1.5-r513 10-May-2008 ==
 * Fix issue with off-screen error dialog on initial launch if file permissions were wrong. (Issue #128)
 * Removed most HTMLFixer hacks - it's faster and works with larger books, but you need to fix your own HTML. (Issue #133)
 * Simplified crash recovery procedure to only discard last read book setting without dialog.

== 1.4-r469 ==
 * First official 1.1.2+ release through Ste's repository

== 1.4-pre02 17-Feb-2008 ==
 * Add missing image files for toolbars
 * Package as TBZ instead of ZIP - more likely to keep +x bit in place.

== 1.4-pre01 16-Feb-2008 ==
 * Several changes contributed by benoitcerrina, including:
 * Landscape mode with view rotate (#81)
 * Double-display of preferences window fixed (#77)
 * Support for 1.1.3 firmware improved (#92, #94, #96)   

== 1.3.7 15-Oct-2007 ==
 * Moved encoding system over to txt2pdbdoc.  Palm DOC files now respond to encoding preferences.  Plucker unknown.

== Older revisions archived to CHANGELOG.old ==